Curl Noise Particle Flow
========================

Dependencies
--------

### For windows:

* Download and place [premake5](https://premake.github.io/download.html) in your path.
* Install [MinGW](http://www.mingw.org/) with everything except ADA and Fortan under `C:\MinGW` (should be default location).
* Download [GLM](http://glm.g-truc.net/0.9.8/index.html) and place the `glm` folder with all includes into `C:\MinGW\include`.
* Fetch the latest [OpenCL](https://www.khronos.org/registry/OpenCL/) headers and find your runtimes (usually the drivers).
* Download the pre-compiled [GLFW](https://github.com/glfw/glfw/releases/download/3.2.1/glfw-3.2.1.bin.WIN32.zip) binaries.
  * Copy the `include` directory into `C:\MinGW\include`.
  * Copy the content of `lib-mingw` into `C:\MinGW\lib` except the `glfw3.dll`which you will place under the `bin` folder for this repo.
* Download the source for [GLEW](https://sourceforge.net/projects/glew/files/glew/2.0.0/glew-2.0.0.zip/download) and copy the `compile_glew.bat` from the `misc` folder provided with this repo to the root of the glew source folder.
  * Run the bat and copy the libraries from `lib` into `C:\MinGW\lib`. Copy the `glew32.dll` into the `C:\Windows` folder. 

If you encounter a run-time error about some basic_string funcitonallity, it's caused by the wrong libstdc++-6.dll is first in the path. The easiest solution is to copy it from C:\MinGW\bin to C:\Windows, or to the folder where the binaries are run from.

### For linux or bsd:

* Using your favorite package manager, install:
    * GLFW with development packages.
    * GLEW with development packages.
    * Maybe OpenCL hardware runtimes.
    * Oh yea, the OpenCL headers too.
    * The standard MESA schenanigans.
    * The Premake5 build system.
* If it doesn't work, ask Erik!!

Building
--------

1. Make sure library dependencies are in your path.
2. Place yourself in the root directory of this project.
3. Acquire the latest version of the [premake5](https://premake.github.io/download.html) build system (add it to your PATH in windows).
4. Thereafter, execute `premake5 gmake` if building on Make.
5. Finally, issue the command `make -C build` and wait.
6. When complete, either `bin` or `lib` are built.
7. Tests can be run with `bin/*-tests` program.
8. **Shortcuts**: `make run` and `make test`.

Contributing
------------

1. See if there any updates upstream: `git remote update`
2. If you are already working on a feature branch, jump to step 4.
3. Create a new branch for your feature: `git branch <feature>`
4. Change to the feature branch by: `git checkout <feature>`
5. Start/continue building the feature. Jump to 7 if done.
6. Push your changes to your remote feature branch with:
   * `git add -A` (everything) or `git add -u` (updates).
   * `git commit -m "Message describing the additions."`
   * Publish remotely: `git push origin <feature>`
   * Go back to step 1 or 5 (if working quickly).
7. Your feature is done (single/many commits).
8. Fetch the changes from upstream first:
   * Go to master: `git checkout -b master`
   * Pull changes: `git pull origin master`
8. Rebase your changes on top of `master`:
   * Back to feature: `git checkout <feature>`
   * Thereafter, issue: `git rebase master`
   * Fix any conflicts that may happen...
   * Changes now on top of the Git tree.
9. Finally, go to GitHub and issue PR.
   * Listen in on other's feedback!
   * Make changes if necessary.
10. Back to the master: `git checkout master`
11. Pat yourself on the back, then goto 1 again.

Structure
---------

* `assets`: contains all resources required at runtime (shaders, textures,...).
* `bin`: contains the built software and accompanying testing suite.
* `build`: stores intermediate object files and generated GNU Make files.
    * `obj`: has all of the generated object files given under compilation.
    * `Makefile`: automatically generated by executing `premake5 gmake`.
    * `*.make`: program specific make config for augmenting `Makefile`.
* `docs`: any generated documentation for this project is over here.
* `include`: both external and internal project headers are here.
    * `foreign`: any foreign headers which should be included.
    * `project directories`: internal headers for the project.
* `lib`: any generated libraries from the project reside here.
* `license.md`: please look through this very carefully.
* `premake5.lua`: configuration file for the build system.
* `readme.md`: this file, contains information on the project.
* `share`: any extra data that needs to be bundled should be here.
* `src`: all source code for the project should be located below here.
    * `project directories`: source code for specific project build.
    * `foreign`: any external source files which might be needed.
* `tests`: source code for the project's testing suite, using Catch syntax.
    * `project directories`: project specific testing suite for one build.
